DOC-699 Updates for UCN (#961)
hazelcast/hz-docs: docs/modules/clusters/pages/ucn-dynamic-config.adoc

= Dynamic Configuration API

> :description: You can use the dynamic configuration API to deploy resources from your client. This means that you can configure namespaces and their resources, and replace the resources at runtime for use when a user customization is next instantiated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:description: You can use the dynamic configuration API to deploy resources from your client. This means that you can configure namespaces and their resources, and replace the resources at runtime for use when a user customization is next instantiated or executed.
```
Replacing an existing Namespace at runtime will allow the resources to be available on the next execution of a UDF, although instantiation is also key as some UDFs are long-running, so it would only apply to new executions for those.

:page-enterprise: true
:page-beta: true

{description}

For example, you can use the dynamic configuration API to add or replace a specific namespace from a running cluster's configuration.

NOTE: Before you can use {ucn}, you must enable it as described in the xref:clusters:ucn-enable.adoc[] topic.

You must create a _member.java_ file containing the configuration and save it to your class configuration folder. 

The file will be similar to the following:

[source,java]
----
package com.hazelcast.namespace.dynamic;

import com.hazelcast.config.Config;
import com.hazelcast.config.UserCodeNamespaceConfig;
import com.hazelcast.core.Hazelcast;
import com.hazelcast.core.HazelcastInstance;

public class Member {

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        Config config = new Config();
        config.getNamespacesConfig().setEnabled(true); <1>

        // construct a namespace configuration with no resources
        UserCodeNamespaceConfig userCodeNamespaceConfig = new UserCodeNamespaceConfig("namespace_name");
        config.getNamespacesConfig().addNamespaceConfig(userCodeNamespaceConfig); <2>
    }

> }

Author: @James I'd appreciate a sample if it doesn't add too much to your workload. Thanks ;-)

> You must create a _member.java_ file containing the configuration and save it to your class configuration folder. 
> 
> The file will be similar to the following:
> 
> [source,java]
> ----
> package com.hazelcast.namespace.dynamic;
> 
> import com.hazelcast.config.Config;
> import com.hazelcast.config.UserCodeNamespaceConfig;
> import com.hazelcast.core.Hazelcast;
> import com.hazelcast.core.HazelcastInstance;
> 
> public class Member {
> 
>     public static void main(String[] args) {
>         Config config = new Config();
>         config.getNamespacesConfig().setEnabled(true); <1>
> 
>         // construct a namespace configuration with no resources
>         UserCodeNamespaceConfig userCodeNamespaceConfig = new UserCodeNamespaceConfig("namespace_name");
>         config.getNamespacesConfig().addNamespaceConfig(userCodeNamespaceConfig); <2>
>     }
> }
> ----
> <1> Enables {ucn} on `Config`
> <2> Creates a `UserCodeNamespaceConfig` with a name of `namespace_name` and no resources 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must create a _Client.java_ file containing the required code and save it to your class configuration folder. 

The file will be similar to the following:

[source,java]
----
package com.hazelcast.namespace.dynamic;

import com.hazelcast.config.UserCodeNamespaceConfig;
import com.hazelcast.config.UserCodeNamespacesConfig;
import com.hazelcast.core.HazelcastInstance;

import java.net.MalformedURLException;
import java.nio.file.Paths;

public class Client {

    public static void main(String[] args) throws MalformedURLException {
        // Assumes a HazelcastInstance is already running with a Config that has UCN enabled
        HazelcastInstance instance = getHazelcastInstance();

        UserCodeNamespacesConfig parentConfig = instance.getConfig().getNamespacesConfig(); (1)
        UserCodeNamespaceConfig namespaceConfig = new UserCodeNamespaceConfig("my_namespace"); (2)
        namespaceConfig.addClass(MyRequireClass.class); (3)
        parentConfig.addNamespaceConfig(namespaceConfig); (4)

        // After some time, you can replace `my_namespace` with new resources...

        UserCodeNamespaceConfig newNamespaceConfig = new UserCodeNamespaceConfig("my_namespace"); (5)
        newNamespaceConfig.addJar(Paths.get("/etc/path/to/my-resource.jar").toUri().toURL(), "my-resource-jar"); (6)
        parentConfig.addNamespaceConfig(namespaceConfig); (7)
    }
}
----
<1> Fetches the dynamic {ucn} configuration instance from the member
<2> Creates a new `UserCodeNamespaceConfig` with the name `my_namespace`
<3> Adds a `Class` resource to the `my_namespace` config, where the `Class` resolved from the client's local context
<4> Adds the `my_namespace` configuration with its resources to the parent, which is dynamically applied on the member
<5> Creates a new namespace config with the same name `my_namespace`
<6> Adds different resources which will replace all previously defined resources
<7> Adds the new `my_namespace` config to the parent, which will replace the previously defined resources
```

= Dynamic Configuration API

> :description: You can use the dynamic configuration API to deploy resources from your client. This means that you can configure namespaces and their resources, and replace the resources at runtime for use when a user customization is next instantiated or executed.

Reviewer 2: > to deploy resources from your client.

The dynamic configuration API is also available for a member `HazelcastInstance`, not just clients.

= Dynamic Configuration API
:description: You can use the dynamic configuration API to deploy resources from your client. This means that you can configure namespaces and their resources, and replace the resources at runtime for use when a user customization is next instantiated.
:page-enterprise: true
:page-beta: true

{description}

> For example, you can use the dynamic configuration API to add or remove a specific namespace from a running cluster's configuration.

Reviewer 3: > remove a specific namespace

We don't support removal of a namespace, we support add or replace. So maybe replace would be a better word than remove?

You must create a _member.java_ file containing the configuration and save it to your class configuration folder. 

The file will be similar to the following:

[source,java]
----
package com.hazelcast.namespace.dynamic;

import com.hazelcast.config.Config;
import com.hazelcast.config.UserCodeNamespaceConfig;
import com.hazelcast.core.Hazelcast;
import com.hazelcast.core.HazelcastInstance;

public class Member {

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        Config config = new Config();
        config.getNamespacesConfig().setEnabled(true); <1>

        // construct a namespace configuration with no resources
        UserCodeNamespaceConfig userCodeNamespaceConfig = new UserCodeNamespaceConfig("namespace_name");
        config.getNamespacesConfig().addNamespaceConfig(userCodeNamespaceConfig); <2>

        // referencing the new UserCodeNamespaceConfig in a map config
        config.getMapConfig("map_name").setUserCodeNamespace("namespace_name"); <3>

        HazelcastInstance member = Hazelcast.newHazelcastInstance(config);
        // putting key/value in the map that client can execute on
        member.getMap("map_name").put("key", 0); <4>
    }
}
----

> <1> Enables UCN on `Config`

Reviewer 3: > Should this be {ucd}?

Should this be {ucn}? ...

> <2> Creates a `UserCodeNamespaceConfig` with a name of `namespace_name` and no resources. This must exist on the running instance before the client can add to it 

Reviewer 3: > This must exist on the running instance before the client can add to it

UserCodeNamespaces must be enabled, but it is not necessary to have an existing empty UserCodeNamespace with a name.

> <3> Creates a `MapConfig` for the `map_name` Map, which references the specified namespace name

Reviewer 3: It is this case where the namespace (with ns_name) must exist with or without resources.

        HazelcastInstance instance = getHazelcastInstance();
        UserCodeNamespacesConfig parentConfig = instance.getConfig().getNamespacesConfig(); <1>
        UserCodeNamespaceConfig namespaceConfig = new UserCodeNamespaceConfig("my_namespace"); <2>
            namespaceConfig.addClass(MyRequireClass.class); <3>

>             UserCodeNamespaceConfig ucn = new UserCodeNamespaceConfig("my_namespace")

Reviewer 3: Programmatically this is fine. I'm just wondering, it looks a bit funny that nothing is ever done with this Object after it is created (from a demonstration pov). 

How about you add the class to the exist `namespaceConfig` you created on line 27? Just like you have done on line 28?

>                 .addClass("url/to/the/class/file", "classId"); <4>

Reviewer 3: For the Jar that you add below on line 34,  you use `Paths.get("/etc/path/to/my-resource.jar").toUri().toURL() ` for the sake of consistency I would do the same here :)

        parentConfig.addNamespaceConfig(namespaceConfig); <5>
        // After some time, you can replace `my_namespace` with new resources...
        UserCodeNamespaceConfig newNamespaceConfig = new UserCodeNamespaceConfig("my_namespace"); <6>
        newNamespaceConfig.addJar(Paths.get("/etc/path/to/my-resource.jar").toUri().toURL(), "my-resource-jar"); <7>
        parentConfig.addNamespaceConfig(namespaceConfig); <8>
    }
}
----
<1> Fetches the dynamic {ucn} configuration instance from the member
<2> Creates a new `UserCodeNamespaceConfig` with the name `my_namespace`
<3> Adds a `Class` resource to the `my_namespace` config, where the `Class` resolved from the client's local context

> <4> Adds a `Class` resource using the class identifier

Reviewer 3: If you do the previous point about adding the class to existing namespace made in point 2, then this will need updated slightly. 

Might be worth saying something like 

"Adds a `Class` resource using the URL to the .class file and a supplied identifier." 

Worth noting a null identifier is valid, in which case the class name will be the ID.

<1> Fetches the dynamic {ucn} configuration instance from the member
<2> Creates a new `UserCodeNamespaceConfig` with the name `my_namespace`
<3> Adds a `Class` resource to the `my_namespace` config, where the `Class` resolved from the client's local context
<4> Adds a `Class` resource using the URL to the _.class_ and the supplied identifier. In this case, a null identifier is valid; if used, the ID is used as the class name

> <5> Adds the `my_namespace` configuration with its resources to the parent, which is dynamically applied on the member

Reviewer 3: Nit-pick - wording is slightly confusing - 

 "; if null is supplied, the class name is used as the ID"
 
 wdyt?
